Arithmetic coding is a form of entropy encoding used in lossless data compression.
 Normally, a string of characters such as the words "hello there" is represented using a fixed number of bits per character, as in the ASCII code.
 When a string is converted to arithmetic encoding, frequently used characters will be stored with fewer bits and not-so-frequently occurring characters will be stored with more bits, resulting in fewer bits used in total.
 Arithmetic coding differs from other forms of entropy encoding, such as Huffman coding, in that rather than separating the input into component symbols and replacing each with a code, arithmetic coding encodes the entire message into a single number, an arbitrary-precision fraction q where 0.
0 ≤ q < 1.
0.
 It represents the current information as a range, defined by two numbers.
 Recent family of entropy coders called asymmetric numeral systems allows for faster implementations thanks to directly operating on a single natural number representing the current information.


The LZ4 algorithm represents the data as a series of sequences.
 Each sequence begins with a one-byte token that is broken into two 4-bit fields.
 The first field represents the number of literal bytes that are to be copied to the output.
 The second field represents the number of bytes to copy from the already decoded output buffer (with 0 representing the minimum match length of 4 bytes).
 A value of 15 in either of the bitfields indicates that the length is larger and there is an extra byte of data that is to be added to the length.
 A value of 255 in these extra bytes indicates that yet another byte to be added.
 Hence arbitrary lengths are represented by a series of extra bytes containing the value 255.
 The string of literals comes after the token and any extra bytes needed to indicate string length.
 This is followed by an offset that indicates how far back in the output buffer to begin copying.
 The extra bytes (if any) of the match-length come at the end of the sequence.
[3][4]

Compression can be carried out in a stream or in blocks.
 Higher compression ratios can be achieved by investing more effort in finding the best matches.
 This results in both a smaller output and faster decompression.
